MARSDEN Luke: 00:00 
 Hello.

NASRI Achraf: 00:03 
 Hello.

MARSDEN Luke: 00:04 
 Hey, Good morning. Fine.

NASRI Achraf: 00:07 
 And you?

MARSDEN Luke: 00:08 
 Yeah, very well, thank you.

NASRI Achraf: 00:11 
 Yes. So I yesterday I stopped at the error when I got the error about disk space. So I saw that you fixed that. Let me share my screen start desktop. But when. When I continue on the task I lost. I don't axa if I need to do some connection or I need to create a new task.

MARSDEN Luke: 00:43 
 Yeah. So this is probably the number I. One of. One of the things I wanted to do today was like prioritize the my work or our work on fixing problems. And that would be a really helpful thing to agree on to make it more productive for you as fast as possible. So one of the issues is that when you resume a session it doesn't really come back nicely at the moment. I think it's because there's a startup script that only runs the first time, but not when you resume or something like this. However, I think if you click on. You see the little icon. The icons are a bit funny at the moment. But if you look at the fox is Firefox and then the cat is Kitty, which is a terminal. So if you click on kitty then I'd be interested just to check that you should actually still have your work in here. So can you try ls oh, interesting. So when resuming. Yeah, Got me to type dots. I axa this is probably a high priority thing to fix the French keyboard layout.

NASRI Achraf: 02:07 
 Yeah, this is the only thing missing to have a smooth keyboard.

MARSDEN Luke: 02:11 
 Right.

NASRI Achraf: 02:12 
 A axa.

MARSDEN Luke: 02:13 
 Is it the dot? Yes. I'll add a button at the. At the top of the screen that just adds a dot. Some sort of.

NASRI Achraf: 02:21 
 I mean the shift if. Yeah, if the shift. If we disable the events. That's the shift. Don't switch. Switch language.

MARSDEN Luke: 02:29 
 Yeah, I tried to fix that but I couldn't. But I'm going to try again. So yeah, thank you for your patience. We had a really good meeting with the quants yesterday by the way, and they're interested in trying this as well. So the work that we do to make it better is going to directly help them have a better time. So let me just quickly log in here. And I've also added disk space monitoring by the way.

NASRI Achraf: 03:02 
 Okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 03:04 
 So next time when we start getting close to running out of disk space, we will all get an email and then I can fix it before. Before it becomes a problem. We also have a lot of debug dumps in the code which is probably like was the cause of running after disk space. So I've also made that keep a much smaller number of those Debug dumps. So instead of like a week's worth of hourly dumps, I now do just like, I think a day or something. Or six. Yeah, that should be faster. Anyway, I'll come in here. Extra ingestion sample. I can type a dot, I think. Oh, interesting. My keyboard isn't working at all.

NASRI Achraf: 04:02 
 Same. I mean, it's very slow and sometimes it's. Not.

MARSDEN Luke: 04:09 
 The keyboard. Yes, just the keyboard. Okay. Yeah. I don't axa. Yeah. Okay. Let's just say this session is not. Is dead, I think a second. But do you have work in here that you've lost now?

NASRI Achraf: 04:32 
 No, he didn't start working yet. I think all the work is pushed to main branch.

MARSDEN Luke: 04:40 
 So if we start well, at least there's that. I can always go poking around inside the system to recover files. If we lose things, everything is always written to a directory. Actually, I guess it might be useful to expose that to you so that you can at least see like, oh, these were all the sessions and these were the files inside them. So if you need to, you can go in and fetch something from there. That might be useful. Anyway. Yeah, let's close this session and make a new one. What are we trying to do?

NASRI Achraf: 05:14 
 I also got a strange behavior sometime when I ask something. It got implemented directly in the planning and he didn't move the task to spec review. So I have some files like added to my repo in my branch. So what I do is that I say to him to push it to main and I close the task directly in planning and I open a new task.

MARSDEN Luke: 05:43 
 Yeah. Interesting. Okay. Yeah. I wonder if we should like make the repo read only or something. If we want to really enforce that the planning is like just planning. And was that. Yeah, Was that when you. Was that when you. When you just asked it to do something initially or was it further instructions that you gave it after it started?

NASRI Achraf: 06:13 
 I don't remember because when I gave him instruction and he go to planning, normally if I do nothing, it should go to spec review at some point.

MARSDEN Luke: 06:26 
 Yeah, yeah, it should.

NASRI Achraf: 06:28 
 So. But yeah, this is also thinking about. Because in planning there is also the option to talk to the agent.

MARSDEN Luke: 06:43 
 Yeah.

NASRI Achraf: 06:45 
 But at which time we will talk to the agent before he finish his work, since automatically when he finishes work, it will push to spec review. Yeah, I don't have. I don't remember what I did exactly, but yeah, that's fine.

MARSDEN Luke: 06:59 
 Yeah. And I mean we'll. We'll do this lots of times so we can keep testing it. I. I think we should. We should. It should be fine to talk to the agent kind of anytime. Ah, interesting. Okay. Yeah, so we can actually see what you did. Can I just read that for a second?

NASRI Achraf: 07:27 
 Yes. Let me see what I closed. Just execute SQL quiz inside SQL folder to create the bronze and gold tables. The table should be empty executes on both table. Yes, this is.

MARSDEN Luke: 07:48 
 I wonder if it. I wonder if it took your request to do not execute do not add any files to the repo. Maybe it was like, oh, well, I can't add any files to the spec repo either.

NASRI Achraf: 08:02 
 Ah, so it's. It's. I will not go to. Okay, I see.

MARSDEN Luke: 08:05 
 Maybe. I mean, that's just a guess, but like it could have interpreted it that way. Because the user. Because the spec. Because the way that the agent pushes the spec is by adding files to a repo and then pushing those files in a command.

NASRI Achraf: 08:21 
 Ah, in the Helix. Helix. Yeah, something. Ah, okay. Okay, I see.

MARSDEN Luke: 08:25 
 Yeah. So maybe it got confused and we can probably fix that with prompting. Like we can probably tell it. If the user tells you not to add files to the repo, it's still okay to add files to the spec repo because that's not what they're talking about.

NASRI Achraf: 08:38 
 Okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 08:39 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. Cool. Okay. It's just we need to clarify things to the LLM. Okay, thanks. That's great.

NASRI Achraf: 08:47 
 So I will add the same task launch. The main script content of CSP should be ingested. Then again so I can.

MARSDEN Luke: 08:57 
 Okay.

NASRI Achraf: 08:58 
 Create task, start planning.

MARSDEN Luke: 09:12 
 Uv is so fast, isn't it? Uv is so fast.

NASRI Achraf: 09:17 
 Ah, yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 09:27 
 Yeah. This is the bug where we need to refresh the page. Like the front end gets into some weird state there. Hopefully I can reproduce that by just like doing the same things you're doing. Yeah. Thank you. Wow, it made a whole diagram.

NASRI Achraf: 09:52 
 Yes, For now, what I did.

MARSDEN Luke: 10:03 
 I.

NASRI Achraf: 10:03 
 Asked him to create a script that will. Each time when I want. For example, when I want to test the project, each time I open a new task, I will ask him to execute Start SQL Server. So it will start the Docker container with the SQL Server and ingest and creates the two tables with the SQL request. So I already asked him to have to. I added two tables, one bronze and one gold.

MARSDEN Luke: 10:38 
 Great. Okay.

NASRI Achraf: 10:40 
 So the bronze is just the raw data and gold. Because when we ingest raw data in bronze, we may need to add some field into gold table, for example, the provider. And then. And so each time I start a new task, he just starts the DB and creates an empty table so I can test the project. I Generated here.

MARSDEN Luke: 11:08 
 Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. I think the. The idea to run the startup script at the beginning, we could potentially put that in the project. Startup script.

NASRI Achraf: 11:23 
 Yes, we can do this.

MARSDEN Luke: 11:27 
 By the way, I was thinking about the confusion between the internal repo and the primary code repo, and I'm wondering if they should actually just be the same thing. Like whenever you create a project, you should maybe have to choose a primary repo and then we also use that primary repo for the project settings because then you wouldn't have two separate repos.

NASRI Achraf: 11:58 
 Yes. I mean, when you say the project settings, you mean the configuration files that serve EDX to work fine with all the specs, etc.

MARSDEN Luke: 12:10 
 Yeah. And the startup script in particular is also very important in the internal repo. But I'm thinking it's kind of too much cognitive overhead, if you axa what I mean by that. Your English is great. It's too much cognitive overhead for. The user to have to think about the internal repo being separate from the primary project repo. And maybe we just need to be like, yeah, everything goes in the primary repo.

NASRI Achraf: 12:48 
 Yes, yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 12:49 
 Including the startup script. Because basically what you've done here is you've added a startup script anyway, right?

NASRI Achraf: 12:54 
 Yes. Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 12:54 
 So actually that really wants to be in the same place.

NASRI Achraf: 12:57 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 12:58 
 So I'm just thinking through the product. Yeah.

NASRI Achraf: 13:03 
 So I axa that each time I will start the project to add some developments. I need some, like, some. Some instruction to be executed in order to test my dev before pushing it to. To other environments.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:16 
 Yeah.

NASRI Achraf: 13:17 
 So let's meet.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:19 
 That's good. Well, let's just carry on like that for now. But I'll probably make that change. It will be a breaking change, so it will. We'll need to like, make a new project.

NASRI Achraf: 13:27 
 Okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:28 
 But like, maybe I can think about.

NASRI Achraf: 13:33 
 Push directly the generated files into new projects and continue.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:36 
 Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Great.

NASRI Achraf: 13:40 
 Okay, so verify Notker is installed. Expected daemon.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:45 
 Okay.

NASRI Achraf: 13:46 
 Execute Start SQL Server Expected dev created and running.

MARSDEN Luke: 13:52 
 Okay.

NASRI Achraf: 13:53 
 Verify SQL Expect container missed. It's not queen database table. Okay. Okay. Do some checks. Clean up.

MARSDEN Luke: 15:29 
 Great.

NASRI Achraf: 15:46 
 Let me see if I. Yes. I also faced an issue yesterday. You see, when the. When the tickets go to spec review, we have three buttons to approve, to reject, and to add something. When I click on the reject, it doesn't work. So when I want to reject some, I have HTTP 400, I think.

MARSDEN Luke: 16:29 
 Okay. Yeah. Thanks for letting me axa. This is so fresh that there's lots of issues like that, but if you tell me whenever you find one, we'll just fix them quickly. Yeah, sure, sure.

NASRI Achraf: 16:41 
 So this is not. Yeah, for non blocking issues it's okay. We can. Yeah, but sometimes, yeah, I think for example, this one is not prior because we can just close, close it and create a new one. But yeah, sometimes it's. I mean the shift is more important to handle. The shift event is more important.

MARSDEN Luke: 17:05 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll work on that first. That's great. I really appreciate you helping me prioritize things. That's really good.

NASRI Achraf: 17:25 
 And you axa, when. What is the status of deploying EDX on our infrastructure or.

MARSDEN Luke: 17:34 
 Yeah, so there was a problem yesterday, which is that the, the golden Images that the DevOps team have approved do not include V2 disk image types. Which means they can't deploy the instance type that we want. Which is quite frustrating because I'm like, there's an image from Red Hat right there. Can you not just use that one? But they're like, no, we need the one that's got our active directory configuration baked into it. So basically what I'm going to do is add support for software rendering because at the moment the desktop is GPU accelerated. But if we just do software rendering and don't rely on the gpu, then we don't need that instance type and we can even deploy Helix code to your Kubernetes cluster, which is where the rest of Helix is already running. So that will just simplify everything and we won't need a separate virtual machine. It's not ideal because then the desktop will probably be a bit slower to interact with, which is why we wanted the GPU rendering. But I'll see how bad it is. Basically we'll see what the performance is like and that's probably going to be our workaround. But yeah, unfortunately I think it looks like that is just going to slow us down a little bit. I wonder if there's a backup plan where we like get approval to do the POC on this infrastructure. I axa that might be a problem and security might be like, no, no way or what, whatever, but I don't axa, maybe if Jason and Sammy like push for it for a three week POC and we understand the risks and we like guarantee that the data will be destroyed afterwards and all of this. I don't axa. What do you think?

NASRI Achraf: 19:34 
 I don't axa. It's not up to me to say to take this decision. But yeah, for me as a, as a engineer, I don't mind. But yeah, for. I think we have a security team that give instructions about what to do and what not to do.

MARSDEN Luke: 19:52 
 Yeah.

NASRI Achraf: 19:52 
 So it's up to them.

MARSDEN Luke: 19:54 
 Yeah. And at some point it might be a business decision about like taking some risk in order to accelerate, which is again, it's not my decision, it's not your decision, but we can at least present the options to Sami and Jason or whoever else needs to make those decisions. Yeah, I don't think I actually axa anyone on the security team yet.

NASRI Achraf: 20:21 
 So normally I asked our. Our manager and yeah, he handle. Handle all this. So it's. It's Arno.

MARSDEN Luke: 20:35 
 Arno.

NASRI Achraf: 20:36 
 Copy.

MARSDEN Luke: 20:37 
 Ah, yes. Okay, cool. Yeah, because I met. I met Arno. Okay. Yeah. So it's worth me having a conversation with Arno just to see, like, I'm not trying to push anything. I'm just trying to figure out a way forward. So. Yeah. Okay, cool. I will ping him, I think, if that's okay with you. Yeah, sure. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, great. Thank you. Yeah, I want to make sure I'm talking to the right people because if I do everything through Sami, then like he's in California and it's Thanksgiving today.

NASRI Achraf: 21:06 
 Yeah, because. Because Sami is responsible for the AI scope and providing tools to other teams related to AI. But the data come from data platform, from our scope. So the decision about data, I think it will not be taken on axa side but on Arno side.

MARSDEN Luke: 21:31 
 Okay. On Arno side. That makes sense. And I also. I met Emmanuel yesterday. Is his. What's his relationship to Arno and is he also. Would he also be involved in that or.

NASRI Achraf: 21:45 
 Yes. So Emmanuel is like. He's a senior data engineer that worked for AXA for several years. So he axa better the environments and. Yeah, he also axa people and who to interact with.

MARSDEN Luke: 22:05 
 Cool. Yeah, great. Yeah, that's really helpful.

NASRI Achraf: 22:08 
 Each time we need to take a decision, we also ask Bert Emmanuel what he thinks.

MARSDEN Luke: 22:14 
 Okay. Super. Yeah, that's great. Thank you for helping me navigate the people. That's really helpful.

NASRI Achraf: 22:19 
 It's been only six months that I joined AXA, so I still don't have all the.

MARSDEN Luke: 22:41 
 Could I see the prompt? You gave this originally, please? I'm just curious.

NASRI Achraf: 22:47 
 Sure. I think we can see it in here.

MARSDEN Luke: 22:59 
 I think it's the other one, isn't it? Yeah. We should probably put the original prompt in that view as well.

NASRI Achraf: 23:06 
 Yes. What the prompt is? Well, it's missed some. An instruction.

MARSDEN Luke: 23:12 
 Yeah. Maybe we could look at it in the. If you just click on the. If you. If you click on the card and then go to the details tab. Ah, okay. Yeah. This one. Yeah. Thank you. I want to test The Python project, start the thing, Give me commands, I can manually connect to the SQL Server instance and execute. Select request to verify everything is up and running. Yeah, everything works fine. Yeah. Again, I feel like it's funny that the model is writing so much Python code in order to satisfy this quest, because you didn't ask it to write a Python project, you just asked it to start a container, verify that you can connect to it, and kind of like give you a SQL shell. Right. So you can like manually interactively test it, and it's gone and written a whole Python framework for doing far more than you asked for. How do you feel about that?

NASRI Achraf: 24:36 
 I axa, I don't. I mean, to execute the task, I axa that internally he needs to do some, some, some coding to execute the tasks, but the choice of Python, I don't axa if you can, like, choose some other lighter language or like, execute the minimum instruction to. To do this.

MARSDEN Luke: 24:59 
 So I think this might also be a prompting thing because we actually. Would you mind scrolling all the way up to the top? Actually, maybe I can do it. Do you mind if I just jump in? Okay. Oh, okay. Yeah. Oh, thank you. So there were these two. This is that one and then this is this one. So this is the original prompt that we give it. And maybe we can figure out, like, how to improve these prompts is what I'm thinking. Your job is to take a user request and generate a short, simple, implementable. Generate short, simple, implementable specifications. Had to be like, absolutely required. Push now. And then you found it still doesn't do this sometimes.

NASRI Achraf: 25:58 
 Right.

MARSDEN Luke: 26:04 
 So this is the design part. And then this is like how to do it? Inspector comes in the work tree. Yeah. And then, then this is the implementation. Oh, sorry. The other one, the one that starts with CSV. Your design has been approved. Please begin implementation. But one thing that's interesting here is. But we don't actually tell it in this prompt which task it's doing. We tell it which branch and maybe it can guess that it's that I want to test the Python project to invert ingest CSV files, but we don't actually say only read one design document. Oh, yeah. But, oh yeah, it has figured out it can see the design task that matches the feature branch name, but we should maybe be more explicit about that. And it says implement the features according to the approved design. Okay, well, let's. So it doesn't actually say you have to write code, but it does say implement the features. And implement the features might imply writing code.

NASRI Achraf: 27:45 
 Oh, okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 27:48 
 And then Also, do you mind if I actually. Yeah, I forget that, like, I'm not sharing my whole screen, I'm just sharing the little mini screen. I'm just going to go on my screen and go and look at the design document. You might also want to pull up the design document. So the technical design is. A startup script, data input, manual, verification, test, execution, key decisions, existing infrastructure, persistent storage, and the implementation plan. Is talking about the Python modules because we already have Python modules in here now. Oh, did that just disconnect after some time?

NASRI Achraf: 29:00 
 Yes, I refreshed it.

MARSDEN Luke: 29:03 
 That's interesting. So maybe there was a timeout, like maybe just after like five minutes or something. The connection. I'm wondering about that. Yeah, I'm just looking again at this. So. Okay, yeah, I've just reviewed, I've actually reviewed the implementation plan and it, the fact that it talks about the Python environment probably and it says like run ingestion for the first CSV file. I guess my question here is ultimately, do you want a Python project for interacting with the database and generating sample data and ingesting it into the database.

NASRI Achraf: 30:08 
 Or do you want.

MARSDEN Luke: 30:09 
 You do?

NASRI Achraf: 30:10 
 Yes, because this is what will be deployed in production in our. Yeah, I mean, I mean the output of using ELIX is having a ready to deploy repository that will. That we will deploy in production in order to read some CSV files and ingest them into an SQL Server instance.

MARSDEN Luke: 30:37 
 Yeah, and those Python. Okay. And those Python files. Okay, so, so that's kind of fine then. I was just, what I was trying to figure out is like, is because you were saying like, oh, sometimes the model needs to write Python code to do things and then you want to delete the Python code afterwards. But actually we do want to keep the Python code or we want to keep some Python code.

NASRI Achraf: 31:00 
 No, because for me, I asked him, for example, for instructions, for example, create some CSV files, generate some mock CSV files, then for example, generate a startup script, then create. Create for me a project that will do the ingestion of those CSVs and then do some testing. So the only Python that I need is the Python that I really need, that I want to deploy in my, in. In my, in my servers. But what he do is even for, even for CSV generation and for other tasks that don't need Python code, he. He creates some Python code and to execute those runs exactly the behavior we had in the first task where I only asked him to generate some CSV files is, was to create some mock data generator Python code and execute them in order to get the CSV files. And I don't axa if the model is able to, I mean, is able to generate CSV files without generating some code. I mean, at some point he needs to do that internally, but. The model also show us all the things that he do.

MARSDEN Luke: 32:22 
 So.

NASRI Achraf: 32:23 
 Yeah, the only thing that I want, that I don't want is to add those Python files into my repo, because I don't. If you want to execute some tasks to generate data, I don't need this Python code behind, so you can do it, no problem, but don't push it to my repo.

MARSDEN Luke: 32:43 
 Yeah, so the thing I'm thinking is that I'm sure that the model is capable of generating the mock CSV files without writing Python code. The model could just write the CSV file.

NASRI Achraf: 32:56 
 Yes, yes. Okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 32:58 
 And I'm sure that the model is also capable of like running the, like the commands that you wanted it to run to start the Docker container, ingest the SQL, ingest the mock file. Well, so the ingestion is the Python code that you want. So.

NASRI Achraf: 33:23 
 Yes, so ingestion.

MARSDEN Luke: 33:24 
 We do want that. We do want the ingestion code. Yeah, yeah.

NASRI Achraf: 33:28 
 But to execute the generated code, you don't need to create Python code to execute.

MARSDEN Luke: 33:36 
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah. So I'm actually, I'm just thinking it's worth, like iterating a bit on the prompts that we give the model here at the top to make it clear that if it's possible to achieve a task that the user is asking for without writing code, then just do the task.

NASRI Achraf: 33:56 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 33:58 
 And I think this step two that we're looking at on your screen, implement the features, is probably making the model think I need to write code to do everything, so I'll play with that. But yeah, and I have access to this. If you don't mind, I might just try making my own project and going through the steps you went through again and try and make it behave better, basically. Okay, we can tune it. Yeah, yeah. And make it faster. Because the thing I'm worried about is that we end up burning a lot of time and tokens by like, doing unnecessary work. And if the product ends up burning time and tokens and is expensive because it uses tokens or whatever and it's. And it's slow, then it's not achieving the goal of making you faster. Yeah, like, and everything I'm thinking about is like, how do we make you more productive? So, like, yeah, I kind of wanted to in for that Anyway, that's enough of that.

NASRI Achraf: 35:00 
 Okay, but there is also. Yeah, there is also some parts of. Yeah. The prompts that I gave him as instructions. So. Yeah, for. Because me too. I can for example, give him further instruction on which task involve writing Python code and which task needs to just exist, for example. Yeah, but this comes with time and with learning. For example, in the beginning he pushed Python code into my repo that I don't need the mock data generator. But in the future prompt I just literally ask him, do not push any code. If I axa that the task should not generate code. But yeah, you can also, you could.

MARSDEN Luke: 35:42 
 Even say don't write any code. Just like try and do the task without writing code. Unless you absolutely have to. Yeah, but again, this might be something we add to this prompt which is kind of the prompt that's baked into Helix. You also might want to make the prompts customizable. So on a project level you might customize the. The planning tar. The planning prompt and the implementation prompt. Because you might find oh, it keeps doing this thing and then you just go and edit the prompt. But then we have the problem of Helix wants to modify those prompts and the customer wants to modify those prompts and how do we reconcile those changes? So then we need to get merge.

NASRI Achraf: 36:21 
 Yeah.

MARSDEN Luke: 36:22 
 Anyway, sorry, like. Yeah, let's. Let's carry on.

NASRI Achraf: 36:25 
 Yes, sure. So what? So he's on implementation. What he gave me.

MARSDEN Luke: 36:53 
 It's ticked off all of the things.

NASRI Achraf: 37:03 
 Okay, so for example, he added now two files. Implementation review. And implementation summary. Sorry, No, I just check what he is doing here before postgres.

MARSDEN Luke: 37:57 
 Why they've got Postgres and SQLite as well.

NASRI Achraf: 38:00 
 Exactly, exactly. That's what I'm wondering, why he is doing that.

MARSDEN Luke: 38:10 
 Well, should we ask it if you just type into the prompt. Because I've got a better keyboard. Well, not better, sorry. Better for the software. I can ask why did you add Postgres and SQLite support? Existing code Already had them. So some previous session you had added SQLite and Postgres support?

NASRI Achraf: 38:59 
 Yeah. Yes, When I generated the project, the FX rate ingestion. I mean I. I just read the code very fast. Yeah, I knew he, he had too much complexity and he tried to manage all the cases. For example, for the date, he tried to manage all the date formats and yeah, he did many things. But before, before I do some tuning and try to. Yeah. To reduce the code and delete all what is not needed. I just wanted to test. Test first the code generated and see if it's working fine before doing any additional prompting to Adapt the code. I think that's why he's doing all of this. But let's ask him just to give us the command that we should execute, or tell him to execute the command and show us the results if the files were executed or not.

MARSDEN Luke: 40:01 
 Okay, so execute the command and show us the result like we asked in the original prompt. Like that?

NASRI Achraf: 40:13 
 Yeah. Yes. That's why it's not running.

MARSDEN Luke: 40:25 
 Probably. You mind if I just do this? I don't axa why I can't seem to click on things. I can click on things here. I can't click here. Oh, dear. Okay, well, never mind. Can I just. Do you mind if I drive for a second? Yeah, sure. So. We can get a terminal here. I don't axa why I can't. Can you click on that terminal on the right hand side? No, no. That's really strange, isn't it? It's like something's kind of got frozen. Dear. Okay, yeah, sorry. New software. Okay, so, Yeah, so he just needs to like use sudo docker.ps so that's an easy fix. We should just make the retro user. I don't axa why it's called retro. Make the retro user able to run Docker, add it to the Docker group. I'm just going to say you just need to run sudo Docker. And then what I would do is I would say please update the startup script and any documentation. Make it clear that we run Docker with sudo. And then I would also say you're right that you overcomplicated it before. We do only want SQL Server support. Rip out support for SQLite and Postgres and simplify everything. Now you're just watching me vibe code, which is maybe helpful as well. But I'm going to let it finish before I hit enter, because in this ide, when you press Enter, it immediately cancels the thing it's doing at the moment. Okay. You can also have. Oh, okay, never mind. I don't like how it flickers like that anyway. Okay, I'm going to interrupt it here. Oh, no, actually that is PI. ODBC is for SQL Server. But like, whatever, we need to get it to take out the other ones. Anyway, I think I'm going to add a prompt to the very beginning, which is only do the bare minimum needed to implement the user's query and don't over complicate things. Keep it simple and as short as possible.

NASRI Achraf: 44:28 
 Yes, yes. Keep it to the minimal. Ask abstractions.

MARSDEN Luke: 44:37 
 Yeah, exactly. Okay. Yeah, Sorry, I'm just reading an email. So. Yeah, I think. So. What I was going to ask is, would you mind if you just like unfullscreen this window? Could you just show me which sequence of tasks you created, please? If you. If it's possible.

NASRI Achraf: 45:54 
 Yes, sure.

MARSDEN Luke: 45:56 
 You can close that and come back to it. Yeah, exactly. If we look at the archived ones, Which is actually making me think it'd be quite nice.

NASRI Achraf: 46:20 
 This is not the first one. Generate and execute Docker. Run command. That's. I think this is the first one.

MARSDEN Luke: 46:29 
 Yeah. Okay.

NASRI Achraf: 46:32 
 Generate two moxie SV files. Already selected. The schema bus, currency code, currency rates, dates. Each file should contain data for specific dates. So that's what generates. Yeah. The first files. Then at some point I asked him to add bronze and gold. Do not just execute, execute, create.

MARSDEN Luke: 46:52 
 No.

NASRI Achraf: 46:53 
 In current Spotlight, please add. No, this one. Yeah, this was the first one.

MARSDEN Luke: 47:04 
 Ah, yeah, that was the very first one, wasn't it?

NASRI Achraf: 47:07 
 Yes, but that didn't actually end up.

MARSDEN Luke: 47:09 
 Going through to implementing anyway.

NASRI Achraf: 47:12 
 Yeah, no, no, we have. I think we have a. Requirements in.

MARSDEN Luke: 47:16 
 Yeah, I remember doing that with you.

NASRI Achraf: 47:19 
 Yeah. Project Consume. I don't axa at which point I asked him, ah, here. Execute generated SQL request to create bronze and gold table on the SQL Server instance running on Docker. Lunoj Unified to create the bronze and the gold.

MARSDEN Luke: 47:51 
 Because you had to restart a session.

NASRI Achraf: 47:54 
 Yeah, I. At some point I asked him to create the two files bronze and. And gold. And then what I knew. Then I asked him to run Docker and I asked him to create the both. SQL. SQL. Let me open the session so I can.

MARSDEN Luke: 48:15 
 Yeah, thank you.

NASRI Achraf: 48:17 
 Start desktop.

MARSDEN Luke: 48:26 
 And I wonder if this session will have any context to that at all. Yeah, I think it won't. Right. Because that was the problem we had.

NASRI Achraf: 48:33 
 Yes. Oh, against. How do we close?

MARSDEN Luke: 48:38 
 I'll stop it now because the only way to stop it is to archive it. But it's already archived. Okay, but show me when you click stop agent that it. That it doesn't work.

NASRI Achraf: 48:48 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 48:49 
 Yeah, Failed to stop agent. Okay, that's fine. But we'll just leave it running. It's not going to hurt us.

NASRI Achraf: 48:55 
 Okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 48:56 
 It'll get stopped next time I restart the server.

NASRI Achraf: 49:02 
 Which one are we working on? Generate two mock CSV files.

MARSDEN Luke: 49:11 
 Oh, if you switch to active because you're looking at the archive things. Yeah, yeah. Okay, cool. Yeah, let's go back to that. Oh, it's being slow. Maybe you need to reload your browser.

NASRI Achraf: 49:29 
 Yeah, okay.

MARSDEN Luke: 49:34 
 Hopefully it's just that. Oh, no, Something went wrong in the back end there, I think. Sorry about that. Let Me see. Oh, yeah, the sandbox crashed. See if I can find the. If I can find the error. Why did the sandbox exit, I wonder? 10:21, that's about the right time. Like 11:21 your time. Right. It happened about two minutes ago.

NASRI Achraf: 51:36 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 51:42 
 We started getting encryption errors and auto pairing failed and then it restarted. Then I got a bunch of Docker errors. Yeah. So I think one thing is I just need to make the whole system deal a lot better with restarting sessions. Because if the sandbox crashed and restarted, but then you were able to just click Start Desktop and carry on where you left off, then you wouldn't really mind. Right. It would be slightly annoying. Yeah. But because you're now blocked, it's a problem because you like. Presumably now if you click Start Desktop, right, then it starts up, but it's this kind of useless state where nothing is checked out. And would you mind just going to. If you click on the kitty. I don't axa why all of the software has such cute names, but if you. Yeah, just. Just do ls. Or I can. I can drive it again. Oh, yeah, interesting. Okay, let me try here, I can join. So I'm in the session as well. So we've got nothing in here apart from the Z state. We. Yeah. Okay, so we've got this dev mapper on home retro work, But it's like the wrong. The wrong thing. Because it's empty. But we were restarting this session with the task id. Could you just help me by. If you close the. Yeah, if you close the window and then go to. Home, please. And then. Yeah, so look, we've got two spec generation sessions here. If you click on the. By the way, every time you do something with the project, it also makes a new session in this view. So it might be useful sometimes for you to be able to come back and see, this is kind of like the log of all of the stuff that happened, which might be useful at some point. You can kind of see it keeps track of everything. But if we scroll up to the top, look, we've got that spec generation session, which is the new one. And if you click on the previous one, it says in last seven days there's another identical spec generation session. Is this the same session as in. It should be like. Is this. Oh, no, this is when you ran out of disk space.

NASRI Achraf: 55:33 
 This should. Yes, yes, yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 55:37 
 Yeah, so that must be from yesterday.

NASRI Achraf: 55:39 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 55:40 
 Okay. It's suggesting deleting a whole bunch of system files. Anyway. Okay, so actually it looks like the top session is the one from today. So it did reuse the same session, but like when restarting the session, it must have mounted like a different file system into the work directory. So I think that's probably the first thing to fix. I mean, you tell me like what's. What are my priorities? Like the dot key and restarting sessions probably. But you tell me.

NASRI Achraf: 56:13 
 Let me check something. Because in project repositories, if we go here and we go into code generate two mock CSV files for fxt, I think it was.

MARSDEN Luke: 56:29 
 I want to test. That was the one we just did most recently.

NASRI Achraf: 56:33 
 Yes. I think the dots is more. Because even if we lost session, since we have a feature branch here, I can start a session and tell him in the prompt, point to this feature branch, or I can just ask him to manually commit. Commit this in main branch or keep working on the same branch.

MARSDEN Luke: 57:03 
 Yeah, I think the confusion there is just that. So that makes sense and I'm glad that you have a workaround. But if you tell the model to work on a different feature branch when it pushes any changes. You see the SPT underscore in the middle of the screen? Yeah. That ID is used to identify which task. It's. SPT is spec task. It's used to identify which task each push corresponds to. And that's used to like move the cards around between the columns. So if you need. So if you do a workaround and you end up needing to ask it to work on a previous branch with your prompt, then the system will get confused and it will end up moving the wrong cards around.

NASRI Achraf: 58:02 
 Okay, so maybe just I will start a new session and ask him to pull files from that. That's why we have the like the good branch. But he will just pull code from this branch and continue.

MARSDEN Luke: 58:18 
 Yeah. You could say start by merging the changes from this branch into the current feature branch and then proceed. Should we try that now and see if that works? And then you'll be unblocked. Basically, I want to leave you unblocked.

NASRI Achraf: 58:34 
 So we just close this.

MARSDEN Luke: 58:36 
 Yeah, close that one. Pull.

NASRI Achraf: 58:56 
 Starts by pulling changes from the. If we go to project repositories.

MARSDEN Luke: 59:54 
 Yeah. And it's almost like you want a feature to be able to go straight into working instead of planning. Because right now it's going to write a whole design doc for like, oh, how am I going to do this?

NASRI Achraf: 01:00:06 
 Like, yeah, yeah, yeah. But yeah, I need to give him instruction after this one.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:00:14 
 Yeah. But all of this is just trying to work around the fact that you can't resume sessions. So if we just fix resuming sessions?

NASRI Achraf: 01:00:21 
 Yes.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:00:22 
 Then we'll be better. Yeah?

NASRI Achraf: 01:00:31 
 Yes. And do you want me to give you as to create? Okay. So.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:00:47 
 Cool. I need to jump onto another call I'm afraid.

NASRI Achraf: 01:00:50 
 Okay, sure.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:00:51 
 Can you ping me on teams? If this doesn't work we can jump back on.

NASRI Achraf: 01:00:57 
 Okay, sure. Just I will send you the prompts that's executed if you want to test on your side or in a new project and if I find time this weekend I might connect to this. I don't axa if you keep this.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:01:13 
 Like oh yeah it's running all the.

NASRI Achraf: 01:01:15 
 Time in the weekend. Okay, sure.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:01:16 
 Feel free to work on the weekend. I have no problem with that. You can even ping me. Yeah, yeah sure. And I'll try and be responsive so thank you. Cool. Thanks as and thank you for pushing through the pain.

NASRI Achraf: 01:01:32 
 Thank you.

MARSDEN Luke: 01:01:32 
 I appreciate it. Cheers. Thanks mate.


